Artist's Statement: The Sisyphean Cup
By Catherine Weng

*The game must be played with developer tools open to have the cracks actually appear on the cup.*
The myth of Sisyphus is about a man who must roll a boulder to the top of a hill. However, as he nears the top, the boulder always rolls back down forcing Sisyphus to repeat this action for eternity. This action is his punishment for being a wicked being in life and can also be seen as a metaphor for coding.
Every time you think things are just about to go right, something else comes up. Always. Whether it be a mysterious bug, some angry error messages or components behaving in ways they were never meant to. There is always something. Perhaps an end goal can be reached but there will always be something more to fix, or to improve on. A hacky solution is the equivalent of stopping up the boulder with other, smaller rocks halfway up the hill leaving good enough as good enough. "If it's not broken, don't fix it"- Exasperated students everywhere. We may wonder, where have we gone wrong in life to deserve this sort of punishment? It is impossible to reach the top of Sisyphus's proverbial hill when it comes to code.
This eternal struggle is true as well with my Sisyphean Cup. Both in the act of trying to drink from the cup and in trying to create it. The idea behind this game was to create a cup that must be filled to drink from, but it is impossible to fill. As the water level rises, cracks appear that let out the water. The player can click on the cracks to fix them but the higher the water rises, the more cracks appear. At some point the cracks appear quickly enough that the player simply has no hope of keeping up and the cup empties out again. Since the cup can never be filled, the player can never drink from the cup to free themselves from eternal dehydration.
As for the creation of this project, the steps seemed so simple. The pixel look of the creations was inspired by Pippin's simple 8bit Sisyphus animations. Seemed like a sensible choice in practicality and surrealism. How could something that looks so simple be so difficult to win against? Create a cup. Animate it. Make a crack appear on top. Now make more cracks on the cup. Set them to appear with the water height. Have them affect the water height. I believe I was successful with all but the "make more cracks appear" portion. Instead of having more cracks, the first crack just gets redrawn somewhere else. The randomness of the crack appearing makes it somewhat more frustrating as both the creator and the player. This, too, can be seen as making the project more Sisyphean.
The only release from this endlessly emptying cup is to simply give up. Close the tab. Push to Github and close the file.
